# Innobyte Internship Task - Node.js Setup Guide

This repository contains code for the Innobyte internship task.

## Setup Instructions

Follow these steps to set up and run the Node.js application:

### 1. Clone the Repository

First, clone the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/MayurGajera/Innobyte_internship_task.git
cd Innobyte_internship_task
```
### 2.Install Dependencies
Next, install the required npm packages:

```bash
npm install
```
### 3.Start the Application
To start the Node.js application, use the following command:

```bash
npm start
```
### 4.Access the Application
Once the application is running, it will be accessible at:

```bash
http://localhost:4040
```
Access signup page at:

```bash
http://localhost:4040/api/signup
```
### 5. Add .env File
Create a .env file in the root directory of the project. Add the necessary environment variables to this file. For MongoDB connection, include the connection string for MongoDB Compass:

```plaintext
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/your-database-name
```
Replace mongodb://localhost:27017/your-database-name with your actual MongoDB connection URI.
database_name=Innobyte_intership_task

# List of Important Packages Used

- **bcrypt** (^5.1.1):  
  For hashing passwords securely.
  
- **cookie-parser** (^1.4.6):  
  For parsing cookies in Express.js.
  
- **dotenv** (^16.4.5):  
  For loading environment variables from a .env file.
  
- **ejs** (^3.1.10):  
  Embedded JavaScript templates for rendering views.
  
- **express** (^4.19.2):  
  Fast, unopinionated, minimalist web framework for Node.js.
  
- **jsonwebtoken** (^9.0.2):  
  For generating and verifying JSON Web Tokens (JWT).
  
- **mongoose** (^8.4.3):  
  MongoDB object modeling tool designed to work in an asynchronous environment.
  
- **nodemailer** (^6.9.14):  
  For sending emails from Node.js applications.
  
- **nodemon** (^3.1.3):  
  Utility that automatically restarts the Node.js application when file changes are detected during development.
  
- **swagger-jsdoc** (^6.2.8):  
  For generating Swagger/OpenAPI documentation from JSDoc comments.
  
- **swagger-ui-express** (^5.0.1):  
  Middleware to serve Swagger UI for Express.js.
  
- **Validator** (^1.1.4):  
  A library for validating and sanitizing strings.

## Access API Documentation

After starting the application, you can access the API documentation using Swagger UI at the following endpoint:

```bash
http://localhost:4040/api-docs
```
This endpoint serves the Swagger UI interface, where you can explore and interact with the API endpoints documented using Swagger/OpenAPI specifications generated by `swagger-jsdoc` and `swagger-ui-express`.

